Beverly Rice
Springboard Capstone 1 Milestone Report
26 Dec 2017

Project: WSDM – KKBox’s Churn Prediction Challenge
Source: Kaggle, https://www.kaggle.com/c/kkbox-churn-prediction-challenge

Background: KKBox is Asia’s leading music streaming service, holding the 
world’s most comprehensive Asia-Pop music library with over 30 million 
tracks.  They have expanded to support Windows, Mac OS X, IOS, Android, 
Symbian, Bada, and Java phones.  Subscribers have praised the service’s 
relevance of search results, advanced search function, and content search 
function over similar providers.  To support operations, the company offers 
freemium and “pay-per-month” subscriptions.    

Problem: Build an algorithm that accurately predicts whether a paid KKBox 
user will not renew or purchase a new subscription within 30 days post 
membership expiration.

Client: KKBox dominated the market in 2008 with 80% market share and in 
2015 announced that they acquired over 10 million cumulative users in 
the past decade.  They’ve boasted over 1600 registered artists and celebrities 
and currently compete with Apple iTunes, Spotify, and YouTube. They hope to 
identify factors that contribute to why users leave so they can be proactive 
in maintaining their customers. 

Data: KKBox provided 5 files in the challenge: 
  1. train_v2: the train set containing user IDs and whether they have churned
  
  2. members_v3: select user information to include member ID, city, age, 
  gender, registration method, and registration initialization time
  
  3. transactions_v2: transactions of users until March 31, 2017 - includes
  user ID, payment method, payment plan, plan price, amount paid, whether
  the member opted to auto-renew or auto-cancel their subscription, 
  transaction date, and membership expiration date
  
  4. user_logs_v2: daily user logs describing listening behaviors of select 
  users - includes user ID, date of log, the number of songs played less 
  than 25% of the song length, between 25-50% of the song length, between 50-75%
  of the song length, between 75-98.5% of the song length, and over 98.5% of the
  song length.  It also includes the number of unique songs and the total seconds 
  played for the given log entry
  
  5. sample_submission_v2: the test set, containing the user IDs in the format 
  KKBox expects it to be submitted in - it incnludes the user ID and churn prediction

The dependent variable is whether a user will churn after their subscription expires.
Specifically, KKBox wants to see if a user will/will not purchase a new service subscription 
within 30 days of their current membership expiration date.  

The train and the test data are selected from users whose membership expire within 
a certain month. The train data consists of users whose subscription expires within 
the month of February 2017, and the test data is with users whose subscription 
expires within the month of March 2017. This means we are looking at user churn or 
renewal roughly in the month of March 2017 for train set, and the user churn or 
renewal roughly in the month of April 2017. 

Data Wrangling Steps Performed
Step 1: Conduct Initial Explortory Data Analysis
  - Applied .info() to each file to view entries, columns and types.  
    Also used .info() and isnull () to determine if there were any 
    null values
  - Applied .describe() to each file to get count/mean/std/min/max 
    25/50/75 for each column
  - Applied .columns to get just the names of each column
  - Applied .duplicated() to each file to determine if there were 
    any duplicate entries
  - Applied .head() to get initial visual of data
  - Applied .size and .unique() to ID unique values for each column
  - Applied .loc() to slice data

Step 2: Conduct Visual Exploratory Analysis
  - Plotted frequency counts for categorical data
  - Applied pd.to_datetime() to convert dates to the appropriate format
  - Plotted frequency counts for time variables
  - Bucketed data for clearer visuals
  - Dropped duplicate 'subscriptions/activity' from same member
  - Plotted single subscription/activity for each member with respect 
    to each variable 
  - Identified outliers
  - Visualized multiple variables

Step 3: Create New Variables
  - Applied groupby(), sum(), and count() 
  - Narrowed down dates to month, weekday, and day of month
  - Logically deduced info from existing variables
  - Plotted frequency counts for new variables

Step 4: Combine Files for Further Analysis
  - Applied concat(), merge(), and to_csv() 
  - Removed dirty/erroneous data
  - Dropped duplicate data
  - Created additional variables

Important Findings:
  The age variable ranged from -7168 to +2016 and over 67% of members
reported an age of '0' suggesting many users falsified the information.
After removing the users under the age of 1 and over the age of 100, the
data reflected the remaining users largely fell between the ages of 15 
and 55.  This pool of users made up less than 30% of the overall data
provided and was deemed an inaccurate representation of KKBox's member 
base as a whole.  The variable was discarded.

  65% of members did not report a specific gender.  Of the remaining 
members, 17.6% reported male and 16.9% reported female.  Diving into
churn rates, the sexes differed by less than 1%.  Considering the large
amount of missing values for this particular variable and the very similar
churn rate reported by males and females, this variable was discarded.  
  
  The number of registered members increased at a rapid rate starting in 2009.  
During this time period, KKBox went international and expanded their user base
beyond Taiwan and into Hong Kong and Macau, and later to Japan, Malaysia, 
Singapore, and Thailand.  Starting in 2011, KKBox also received investments
from KDDI Corporation and HTC Corporation.  For the purposes of this challenge,
only users who registered in 2009 and later were considered.
  
  Based on the variables provided, new ones were created for each member: registration day,
registration month, number of payment methods used, number of payment plans
used, discount, total transactions, total membership duration, number of active
logs, total songs listened to throughout membership, total songs listened to more 
than once, total songs listened to for 25/50/75/985/100% of the song duration, and 
percentage of songs listened to for only 25/50/75/98.5/100% of the song length.

  Preliminary EDA highlighted some variables/values that may indicate a higher likelyhood 
to churn.  Members who registered using methods 3 & 4 were more likely
to churn than those who used methods 7, 9 & 13.  Those who registered in the beginning of the
year, particularly in march, were more likely to churn than those who registered in the fall.
Users who opted for payment methods 3, 6, 8, 12, 7, 1, 15, 20, 22, and 32 churned at a rate 
of over 90% whereas those who used methods 11, 14, 18, 19, 21, 23, 27, 31, 33, 34, 37, 39 & 40
churned at a rate less than 5%.  Further, the more payment methods and payment plans used by a 
member increased their probability of churning.  Users who paid more than $200 for their plan 
showed high churn rates as well as those who manually cancelled their subscription.  
  
  p25/50/75/985/100 are new variables introduced to indicate the percentage of total songs
throughout a users membership that were listened to for only 25/50/75/98.8/100% of the 
duration of the song length.  An assumption is that if a member had a high p25 value, they 
listened to most of their songs at less than 25% of the length possibly indicating poor 
search/recommendation engine performance per the user's preferences.  Unfortunately, the data 
did not produce an observable trend in p25/50/75/985/100 value among the users.

  Based on the above analysis the variables likely to be included in the final model are:
    

See Data Wrangling.ipynb in this repository for wrangling/analysis details

