Idea 1
  Source: http://www.hacking4defensegu.com/dodic-challenges/#dodic-challenges-1
  
  Problem: The U.S. Army currently lacks the ability to aggregate, index, 
  and analyze large amounts of social media data in order to 
  identify current and future political, social and economic 
  trends. This valuable source of data could be used in conjunction 
  with advanced artificial intelligence methods to inference future 
  social unrest and allow commanders to focus resources more 
  effectively on probable hotspots in dense urban environments.

Idea 2
  Source: http://armstrade.sipri.org/armstrade/page/trade_register.php
  
  Problem: 
      Who are the suppliers and recipients of major conventional weapons?
			What weapons have been exported or imported by specific suppliers or recipients?
			How have the relationships between different suppliers and recipients changed over time?
			Where do countries in conflict get their weapons from?
			How do states implement their export control regulations?
			Where are potentially destabilizing build ups of weapons occurring?
      What is the relationship between access to natural resources and arms transfers?
 
Idea 3
  Source: https://www.kaggle.com/c/kkbox-churn-prediction-challenge
  
  Problem: KKBOX is Asia’s leading music streaming service, holding 
  the world’s most comprehensive Asia-Pop music library with over 
  30 million tracks. They offer a generous, unlimited version of their 
  service to millions of people, supported by advertising and paid 
  subscriptions. This delicate model is dependent on accurately 
  predicting churn of their paid users.

  In this competition you’re tasked to build an algorithm that predicts 
  whether a user will churn after their subscription expires. Currently, 
  the company uses survival analysis techniques to determine the residual 
  membership life time for each subscriber. By adopting different methods, 
  KKBOX anticipates they’ll discover new insights to why users leave so 
  they can be proactive in keeping users dancing.
